<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="ko">
<head>
  <title>코스모스</title>
  <link href="../Styles/base.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
  <link href="../Styles/add_new_.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta name="Adept.resource" value="urn:uuid:b7295af5-9853-6f25-40c0-76f61ebb9be4"/>
</head>

<body class="biblio"><div style="display:none;"><a id="GBS.1032.01"/></div>
  <h1 class="h2_a" id="id_a00">참고 문헌</h1>

  <p class="att_p0">기술적이고 전문적인 문헌에는 ‘*’ 표시를 해 두었다.</p>

  <p class="p0 chron">1  코스모스의 바닷가에서</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Boeke, Kees. <span class="iM">Cosmic View: The Universe<a id="GBS.1032.02"/> in Forty Jumps</span>. New York: John Day, 1957.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Fraser, Peter Marshall. <span class="iM">Ptolemaic Alexandria</span>. Three<a id="GBS.1032.03"/> volumes. Oxford: Clarendon Pess, 1972.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Morison, Samuel Eliot. <span class="iM">Admiral of the Ocean Sea: A Life<a id="GBS.1032.04"/> of Christopher Columbus</span>. Boston: Little, Brown, 1942.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Sagan, Carl. <span class="iM">Broca’s Brain: Reflections<a id="GBS.1032.05"/> on the Romance of Science</span>. New York: Random House, 1979.</p>

  <p class="p0 chron">2  우주 생명의 푸가</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Attenborough, David.<a id="GBS.1033.01"/> <span class="iM">Life on Earth: A Natural History</span>. London: British Broadcasting Corporation, 1979.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">* Dobzhansky,<a id="GBS.1033.02"/> Theodosius, Ayala, Francisco J., Stebbins, G. Ledyard and Valentine, James. <span class="iM">Evolution</span>. San Francisco:<a id="GBS.1033.03"/> W.H. Freeman, 1978.</p>

  <p class="att_p0"><span class="iM">Evolution</span>. A Scientific American Book. San Francisco: W.H. Freeman, 1978.</p><div style="display:none;"><a id="GBS.1033.04"/></div>

  <p class="att_p0">Gould, Stephen Jay. <span class="iM">Ever Since Darwin: Reflections on Natural History</span>. New York: W.W. Norton,<a id="GBS.1033.05"/> 1977.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Handler, Philip <span class="s">(ed.)</span>. <span class="iM">Biology and the Future of Man</span>. Committee on Science and Public<a id="GBS.1034.01"/> Policy, National Academy of Sciences. New York: Oxford University Press, 1970.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Huxley, Julian.<a id="GBS.1034.02"/> <span class="iM">New Bottles for New Wine: Essays</span>. London: Chatto and Windus, 1957.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Kennedy, D. <span class="s">(ed.)</span>. <span class="iM">Cellular<a id="GBS.1034.03"/> and Organismal Biology</span>. A Scientific American Book. San Francisco: W.H. Freeman, 1974.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">* Kornberg,<a id="GBS.1034.04"/> <span class="iM">A. DNA Replication</span>. San Francisco: W.H. Freeman, 1980.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">* Miller, S.L. and Orgel, L. <span class="iM">The Origins<a id="GBS.1034.05"/> of Life on Earth</span>. Englewood Cliffs, N.J.: Prentice-Hall, 1974.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Orgel, L. <span class="iM">Origins of Life</span>. New<a id="GBS.1035.01"/> York: Wiley, 1973.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">* Roemer, A.S. “Major Steps in Vertebrate Evolution.” <span class="iM">Science</span>, Vol. 158,<a id="GBS.1035.02"/> 1967, 1629쪽.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">* Roland, Jean Claude. <span class="iM">Atlas of Cell Biology</span>. Boston: Little, Brown, 1977.</p>

  <p class="att_p0"><a id="GBS.1035.03"/>Sagan, Carl. “Life.” <span class="iM">Encyclopaedia Britannica</span>, 1970 and later printings.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">* Sagan, Carl and Salpeter,<a id="GBS.1035.04"/> E.E. “Particles, Environments and Hypothetical Ecologies in the Jovian Atmosphere.” <span class="iM">Astrophysical<a id="GBS.1035.05"/> Journal Supplement</span>, Vol. 32, 1976, 737쪽.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Simpson, G.G. <span class="iM">The Meaning of Evolution</span>. New Haven:<a id="GBS.1036.01"/> Yale University Press, 1960.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Thomas, Lewis. <span class="iM">Lives of a Cell: Notes of a Biology Watcher</span>. New<a id="GBS.1036.02"/> York: Bantam Books, 1974.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">* Watson, J.D. <span class="iM">Molecular Biology of the Gene</span>. New York: W.A. Benjamin,<a id="GBS.1036.03"/> 1965.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Wilson, E.O., Eisner, T., Briggs, W.R., Dickerson, R.E., Metzenberg, R.L., O’Brien, R.D.,<a id="GBS.1036.04"/> Susman, M., and Boggs, W.E. <span class="iM">Life on Earth</span>. Stamford: Sinauer Associates, 1973.</p>

  <p class="p0 chron">3  지상과 천상의 하모니</p><div style="display:none;"><a id="GBS.1036.05"/></div>

  <p class="att_p0">Abell, George and Singer, B <span class="s">(eds.)</span>. <span class="iM">Science and the Paranormal</span>. New York: Scribner’s, 1980.</p><div style="display:none;"><a id="GBS.1037.01"/></div>

  <p class="att_p0">* Beer, A. <span class="s">(ed.)</span>. <span class="iM">Vistas in Astronomy: Kepler</span>, Vol. 18. London: Pergamon Press, 1975.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Caspar,<a id="GBS.1037.02"/> Max. <span class="iM">Kepler</span>. London: Abelard-Schuman, 1959.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Cumont, Franz. <span class="iM">Astrology and Religion Among the<a id="GBS.1037.03"/> Greeks and Romans</span>. New York: Dover, 1960.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Koestler, Arthur. <span class="iM">The Sleepwalkers</span>. New York: Grosset<a id="GBS.1037.04"/> and Dunlap, 1963.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Krupp, E.C. <span class="s">(ed.)</span>. <span class="iM">In Search of Ancient Astronomies</span>. New York: Doubleday,<a id="GBS.1037.05"/> 1978.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Pannekoek, Anton. <span class="iM">A History of Astronomy</span>. London: George Allen, 1961.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Rey, H.A. <span class="iM">The<a id="GBS.1038.01"/> Stars: A New Way to See Them</span>, third edition. Boston: Houghton Mifflin, 1970.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Rosen, Edward. <span class="iM"><a id="GBS.1038.02"/>Kepler’s Somnium</span>. Madison, Wis.: University of Wisconsin Press, 1967.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Standen, A. <span class="iM">Forget Your<a id="GBS.1038.03"/> Sun Sign</span>. Baton Rouge: Legacy, 1977.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Vivian, Gordon and Raiter, Paul. <span class="iM">The Great Kivas of Chaco<a id="GBS.1038.04"/> Canyon</span>. Albuquerque: University of New Mexico Press, 1965.</p>

  <p class="p0 chron">4  천국과 지옥</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Chapman, C. <span class="iM">The Inner<a id="GBS.1038.05"/> Planets</span>. New York: Scribner’s, 1977.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Charney, J.G. <span class="s">(ed.)</span>. <span class="iM">Carbon Dioxide and Climate: A Scientific<a id="GBS.1039.01"/> Assessment</span>. Washington, D.C.: National Academy of Sciences, 1979.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Cross, Charles A. and Moore,<a id="GBS.1039.02"/> Patrick. <span class="iM">The Atlas of Mercury</span>. New York: Crown Publishers, 1977.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">* Delsemme, A.H. <span class="s">(ed.)</span>. <span class="iM">Comets,<a id="GBS.1039.03"/> Asteroids, Meteorites</span>. Toledo: University of Ohio Press, 1977.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Ehrlich, Paul R., Ehrlich, Anne<a id="GBS.1039.04"/> H. and Holden, John P. <span class="iM">Ecoscience: Population, Resources, Environment</span>. San Francisco: W.H. Freeman,<a id="GBS.1039.05"/> 1977.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">* Dunne, James A. and Burgess, Eric. <span class="iM">The Voyage of Mariner 10</span>. NASA SP-424. Washington,<a id="GBS.1040.01"/> D.C.: U.S. Government Printing Office, 1978.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">* El-Baz, Farouk. “The Moon After Apollo.” <span class="iM">Icarus</span><a id="GBS.1040.02"/>, Vol. 25, 1975, 495쪽.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Goldsmith, Donald <span class="s">(ed.)</span>. <span class="iM">Scientists Confront Velikovsky</span>. Ithaca: Cornell<a id="GBS.1040.03"/> University Press, 1977.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Kaufmann, William J. <span class="iM">Planets and Moons</span>. San Francisco: W.H. Freeman,<a id="GBS.1040.04"/> 1979.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">* Keldysh, M.V. “Venus Exploration with the Venera 9 and Venera 10 Spacecraft.” <span class="iM">Icarus</span><a id="GBS.1040.05"/>, Vol. 30, 1977, 605쪽.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">* Kresak, L. “The Tunguska Object: A Fragment of Comet Encke?” <span class="iM">Bulletin<a id="GBS.1041.01"/> of the Astronomical Institute of Czechoslovakia</span>, Vol. 29, 1978, 129쪽.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Krinov, E.L. <span class="iM">Giant Meteorites</span><a id="GBS.1041.02"/>. New York: Pergamon Press, 1966.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Lovelock, L. <span class="iM">Gaia</span>. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1979.</p><div style="display:none;"><a id="GBS.1041.03"/></div>

  <p class="att_p0">* Marov, M. Ya. “Venus: A Perspective at the Beginning of Planetary Exploration.” <span class="iM">Icarus</span>, Vol.<a id="GBS.1041.04"/> 16, 1972, 115쪽.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Masursky, Harold, Colton, C.W. and El-Baz, Farouk <span class="s">(eds.)</span>. <span class="iM">Apollo Over the Moon:<a id="GBS.1041.05"/> A View form Orbit</span>. NASA SP-362. Washington, D.C.: U.S. Government Printing Office, 1978.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">* Mulholland,<a id="GBS.1042.01"/> J.D. and Calame, O. “Lunar Crater Giordano Bruno: AD 1178 Impact Observations Consistent<a id="GBS.1042.02"/> with Laser Ranging Results.” <span class="iM">Science</span>, Vol. 199, 1978.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">* Murray, Bruce and Burgess, Eric. <span class="iM">Flight<a id="GBS.1042.03"/> to Mercury</span>. New York: Columbia University Press, 1977.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">* Murray, Bruce, Greeley, R. and Malin,<a id="GBS.1042.04"/> M. <span class="iM">Earthlike Planets</span>. San Francisco: W.H. Freeman, 1980.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Nicks, Oran W. <span class="s">(ed.)</span>. <span class="iM">This Island Earth</span><a id="GBS.1042.05"/>. NASA SP-250. Washington, D.C.: U.S. Government Printing Office, 1970.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Oberg, James “Tunguska:<a id="GBS.1043.01"/> Collision with a Comet.” <span class="iM">Astronomy</span>, Vol. 5, No. 12, December 1977, 18쪽.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">* Pioneer Venus Results.<a id="GBS.1043.02"/> <span class="iM">Science</span>, Vol. 203, No. 4382, February 23, 1979, 743쪽.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">* Pioneer Venus Results. <span class="iM">Science</span>, Vol.<a id="GBS.1043.03"/> 205, No. 4401, July 6, 1979, 41쪽.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Press, Frank and Siever, Raymond. <span class="iM">Earth</span>, second edition. San<a id="GBS.1043.04"/> Francisco: W.H. Freeman, 1978.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Ryan, Peter and Pesek, L. <span class="iM">Solar System</span>. New York; Viking, 1979.</p><div style="display:none;"><a id="GBS.1043.05"/></div>

  <p class="att_p0">* Sagan, Carl, Toon, O.B. and Pollack, J.B. “Anthropogenic Albedo Changes and the Earth’s Climate.”<a id="GBS.1044.01"/> <span class="iM">Science</span>, Vol. 206, 1979, 1363쪽.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Short, Nicholas M., Lowman, Paul D., Freden, Stanley C. and<a id="GBS.1044.02"/> Finsh, William A. <span class="iM">Mission to Earth: LANDSAT Views the World</span>. NASA SP-360. Washington, D.C.: U.S.<a id="GBS.1044.03"/> Government Printing Office, 1976.</p>

  <p class="att_p0"><span class="iM">Skylab Explores the Earth</span>. NASA SP-380. Washington, D.C.:<a id="GBS.1044.04"/> U.S. Government Printing Office, 1977.</p>

  <p class="att_p0"><span class="iM">The Solar System</span>. A Scientific American Book. San Francisco.<a id="GBS.1044.05"/> W.H. Freeman, 1975.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Urey, H.C. “Cometary Collisions in Geological Periods.” <span class="iM">Nature</span>, Vol. 242,<a id="GBS.1045.01"/> March 2, 1973, 32쪽.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Vitaliano, Dorothy B. <span class="iM">Legends of the Earth</span>. Bloomington: Indiana University<a id="GBS.1045.02"/> Press, 1973.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">* Whipple, F.L. <span class="iM">Comets</span>. New York: John Wiley, 1980.</p>

  <p class="p0 chron">5  붉은 행성을 위한 블루스</p>

  <p class="att_p0">*<a id="GBS.1045.03"/> American Geophysical Union. <span class="iM">Scientific Results of the Viking Project</span>. Reprinted from the <span class="iM">Journal<a id="GBS.1045.04"/> of Geophysical Research</span>, Vol. 82, 1977, 3959쪽.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Batson, R.M., Bridges, T.M. and Inge, J.L. <span class="iM">Atlas<a id="GBS.1045.05"/> of Mars: The 1:5,000,000 Map Series</span>. NASA SP-438. Washington, D.C.: U.S. Government Printing Office,<a id="GBS.1046.01"/> 1979.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Bradbury, Ray, Clarke, Arthur C., Murray, Bruce, Sagan, Carl, and Sullivan, Walter. <span class="iM">Mars<a id="GBS.1046.02"/> and the Mind of Man</span>. New York: Harper and Row, 1973.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Burgess, Eric. <span class="iM">To the Red Planet</span>. New York:<a id="GBS.1046.03"/> Columbia University Press, 1978.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Gerster, Georg, <span class="iM">Grand Design: The Earth from Above</span>. New York:<a id="GBS.1046.04"/> Paddington Press, 1976.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Glasstone, Samuel. <span class="iM">Book of Mars</span>. Washington, D.C.: U.S. Government Printing<a id="GBS.1046.05"/> Office, 1968.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Goddard, Robert H. <span class="iM">Autobiography</span>. Worcester, Mass.: A.J. St. Onge, 1966.</p>

  <p class="att_p0"><a id="GBS.1047.01"/>* Goddard, Robert H. <span class="iM">Papers</span>. Three volumes. New York: McGraw-Hill, 1970.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Hartman, W.H. and Raper,<a id="GBS.1047.02"/> O. <span class="iM">The New Mars: The Discoveries of Mariner 9</span>. NASA SP-337. Washington, D.C.: U.S. Government Printing<a id="GBS.1047.03"/> Ofice, 1974.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Hoyt, William G. <span class="iM">Lowell and Mars</span>. Tucson: University of Arizona Press, 1976.</p>

  <p class="att_p0"><a id="GBS.1047.04"/>Lowell, Percival. <span class="iM">Mars</span>. Boston: Houghton Mifflin, 1896.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Lowell, Percival. <span class="iM">Mars and Its Canals</span><a id="GBS.1047.05"/>. New York: Macmillan, 1906.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Lowell, Percival. <span class="iM">Mars as an Abode of Life</span>. New York: Macmillan,<a id="GBS.1048.01"/> 1908.</p>

  <p class="att_p0"><span class="iM">Mars as Viewed by Mariner 9</span>. NASA SP-329. Washington, D.C.: U.S. Government Printing Office,<a id="GBS.1048.02"/> 1974.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Morowitz, Harold. <span class="iM">The Wine of Life</span>. New York: St. Martin’s, 1979.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">* Mutch, Thomas<a id="GBS.1048.03"/> A., Arvidson, Raymond E., Head, James W., Jones, Kenneth L. and Saunders, R. Stephen. <span class="iM">The Geology<a id="GBS.1048.04"/> of Mars</span>. Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1976.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">* Pittendrigh, Colin S., Vishniac, Wolf<a id="GBS.1048.05"/> and Pearman, J.P.T. <span class="s">(eds.)</span>. <span class="iM">Biology and the Exploration of Mars</span>. Washington, D.C.: National Academy<a id="GBS.1049.01"/> of Sciences, National Research Council, 1966.</p>

  <p class="att_p0"><span class="iM">The Martian Landscape</span>. Viking Lander Imaging Team,<a id="GBS.1049.02"/> NASA SP-425. Washington, D.C.: U.S. Government Printing Office, 1978.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">* Viking 1 Mission Results.<a id="GBS.1049.03"/> <span class="iM">Science</span>, Vol. 193, No. 4255, August 1976.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">* Viking 1 Mission Results. <span class="iM">Science</span>, Vol. 194, No.<a id="GBS.1049.04"/> 4260, October 1976.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">* Viking 2 Mission Results. <span class="iM">Science</span>, Vol. 194, No. 4271, December 1976.</p><div style="display:none;"><a id="GBS.1049.05"/></div>

  <p class="att_p0">* “The Viking Mission and the Question of Life on Mars.” <span class="iM">Journal of Molecular Evolution</span>, Vol.<a id="GBS.1050.01"/> 14, Nos. 1-3. Berlin: Springer-Verlag, December 1979.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Wallace, Alfred Russel. <span class="iM">Is Mars Habitable?</span><a id="GBS.1050.02"/> London: Macmillan, 1907.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Washburn, Mark. <span class="iM">Mars At Last!</span> New York: G.P. Putnam, 1977.</p>

  <p class="p0 chron">6  여행자가<a id="GBS.1050.03"/> 들려준 이야기</p>

  <p class="att_p0">* Alexander, A.F.O. <span class="iM">The Planet Saturn</span>. New York: Dover, 1980.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Bell, Arthur E. <span class="iM">Christiaan<a id="GBS.1050.04"/> Huygens and the Development of Science in the Seventeenth Century</span>. New York: Longman’s Green, 1947.</p><div style="display:none;"><a id="GBS.1050.05"/></div>

  <p class="att_p0">Dobell, Clifford. <span class="iM">Anton Van Leeuwenhoek and His “Little Animals.”</span> New York: Russell and Russell,<a id="GBS.1051.01"/> 1958.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Duyvendak, J.J.L. <span class="iM">China’s Discovery of Africa</span>. London: Probsthain, 1949.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">* Gehrels,<a id="GBS.1051.02"/> T. <span class="s">(ed.)</span>. <span class="iM">Jupiter: Studies of the Interior, Atmosphere, Magnetosphere and Satellites</span>. Tucson: University<a id="GBS.1051.03"/> of Arizona Press, 1976.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Haley, K.H. <span class="iM">The Dutch in the Seventeenth Century</span>. New York: Harcourt<a id="GBS.1051.04"/> Brace, 1972.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Huizinga, Johan. <span class="iM">Dutch Civilization in the Seventeenth Century</span>. New York: F. Ungar,<a id="GBS.1051.05"/> 1968.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">* Hunten, Donald <span class="s">(ed.)</span>. <span class="iM">The Atmosphere of Titan</span>. NASA SP-340. Washington, D.C.: U.S. Government<a id="GBS.1052.01"/> Printing Office, 1973.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">* Hunten, Donald and Morrison, David <span class="s">(eds.)</span>. <span class="iM">The Saturn System</span>. NASA<a id="GBS.1052.02"/> Conference Publication 2068. Washington, D.C.: U.S. Government Printing Office, 1978.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Huygens,<a id="GBS.1052.03"/> Christiaan. <span class="iM">The Celestial Worlds Discover’d: Conjectures Concerning the Inhabitants, Planets and<a id="GBS.1052.04"/> Productions of the Worlds in the Planets</span>. London: Timothy Childs, 1798.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">* “First Scientific<a id="GBS.1052.05"/> Results from Voyager 1.” <span class="iM">Science</span>, Vol. 204, No. 4396, June 1, 1979.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">* “First Scientific Results<a id="GBS.1053.01"/> from Voyager 2.” <span class="iM">Science</span>, Vol. 206, No. 4421, November 23, 1979, 927쪽.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Manuel, Frank E. <span class="iM">A Portrait<a id="GBS.1053.02"/> of Isaac Newton</span>. Washington: New Republic Books, 1968.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Morrison, David and Samz, Jane. <span class="iM">Voyager<a id="GBS.1053.03"/> to Jupiter</span>. NASA SP-439. Washington, D.C.: U.S. Government Printing Office, 1980.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Needham, Joseph.<a id="GBS.1053.04"/> <span class="iM">Science and Civilization in China</span>, Vol. 4, Part 3, New York: Cambridge University Press, 1970, 468~553쪽.</p><div style="display:none;"><a id="GBS.1053.05"/></div>

  <p class="att_p0">* Palluconi, F.D. and Pettengill, G.H. <span class="s">(eds.)</span>. <span class="iM">The Rings of Saturn</span>. NASA SP-343. Washington,<a id="GBS.1054.01"/> D.C.: U.S. Government Printing Ofice, 1974.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Rimmel, Richard O., Swindell, William and Burgess,<a id="GBS.1054.02"/> Eric. <span class="iM">Pioneer Odyssey</span>. NASA SP-349. Washington, D.C.: U.S. Government Printing Office, 1977.</p>

  <p class="att_p0"><a id="GBS.1054.03"/>* “Voyager 1 Encounter with Jupiter and Io.” <span class="iM">Nature</span>, Vol. 280, 1979, 727쪽.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Wilson, Charles H. <span class="iM"><a id="GBS.1054.04"/>The Dutch Republic and the Civilization of the Seventeenth Century</span>. London: Weidenfeld and Nicolson,<a id="GBS.1054.05"/> 1968.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Zumthor, Paul. <span class="iM">Daily Life in Rembrandt’s Holland</span>. London: Weidenfeld and Nicolson, 1962.</p><div style="display:none;"><a id="GBS.1055.01"/></div>

  <p class="p0 chron">7  밤하늘의 등뼈</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Baker, Howard. <span class="iM">Persephone’s Cave</span>. Athens: University of Georgia Press, 1979.</p><div style="display:none;"><a id="GBS.1055.02"/></div>

  <p class="att_p0">Berendzen, Richard, Hart, Richard and Seeley, Daniel, <span class="iM">Man Discovers the Galaxies</span>. New York: Science<a id="GBS.1055.03"/> History Publications, 1977.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Farrington, Benjamin. <span class="iM">Greek Science</span>. London: Penguin, 1953.</p>

  <p class="att_p0"><a id="GBS.1055.04"/>Finley, M.I. <span class="iM">Ancient Slavery and Modern Ideology</span>. London: Chatto, 1980.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Frankfort, H., Frankfort,<a id="GBS.1055.05"/> H.A., Wilson, J.A. and Jacobsen, T. <span class="iM">Before Philosophy: The Intellectual Adventure of Ancient Man</span><a id="GBS.1056.01"/>. Chicage: University of Chicago Press, 1946.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Heath, T. <span class="iM">Aristarchus of Samos</span>. Cambridge: Cambridge<a id="GBS.1056.02"/> University Press, 1913.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Heidel, Alexander. <span class="iM">The Babylonian Genesis</span>. Chicago: University of Chicago<a id="GBS.1056.03"/> Press, 1942.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Hodges, Henry. <span class="iM">Technology in the Ancient World</span>. London: Allan Lane, 1970.</p>

  <p class="att_p0"><a id="GBS.1056.04"/>Jeans, James. <span class="iM">The Growth of Physical Science</span>, second edition. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press,<a id="GBS.1056.05"/> 1951.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Lucretius. <span class="iM">The Nature of the Universe</span>. New York: Penguin, 1951.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Murray, Gilbert. <span class="iM"><a id="GBS.1057.01"/>Five Stages of Greek Religion</span>. New York: Anchor Books, 1952.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Russell, Bertrand, <span class="iM">A History of<a id="GBS.1057.02"/> Western Philosophy</span>. New York: Simon and Schuster, 1945.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Sarton, George. <span class="iM">A History of Science</span><a id="GBS.1057.03"/>, Vols. 1 and 2. Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 1952, 1959.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Schrödinger, Erwin. <span class="iM">Nature<a id="GBS.1057.04"/> and the Greeks</span>. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1954.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Vlastos, Gregory. <span class="iM">Plato’s Universe</span><a id="GBS.1057.05"/>. Seattle: University of Washington Press, 1975.</p>

  <p class="p0 chron">8  시간과 공간을 가르는 여행</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Barnett, Lincoln. <span class="iM">The<a id="GBS.1057.06"/> Universe and Dr. Einstein</span>. New York: Sloane, 1956.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Bernstein, Jeremy. <span class="iM">Einstein</span>. New York: Viking,<a id="GBS.1058.01"/> 1973.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Borden, M. and Graham, O. L. <span class="iM">Speculations on American History</span>. Lexingint, Mass.: D.C.<a id="GBS.1058.02"/> Heath, 1977.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">* Bussard, R.W. “Galactic Matter and Interstellar Flight.” <span class="iM">Astronautica Acta</span>, Vol.<a id="GBS.1058.03"/> 6, 1960, 179쪽.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Cooper, Margaret. <span class="iM">The Inventions of Leonardo Da Vinci</span>. New York: Macmillan, 1965.</p><div style="display:none;"><a id="GBS.1058.04"/></div>

  <p class="att_p0">* Dole, S.H. “Formation of Planetary Systems by Aggregation: A Computer Simulation.” <span class="iM">Icarus</span>,<a id="GBS.1058.05"/> Vol. 13, 1970, 494쪽.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Dyson, F.J. “Death of a Project.” <span class="s">[Orion.]</span> <span class="iM">Science</span>, Vol. 149, 1965, 141쪽.</p><div style="display:none;"><a id="GBS.1059.01"/></div>

  <p class="att_p0">Gamow, George. <span class="iM">Mr. Tompkins in Paperback</span>. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1965.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Hart,<a id="GBS.1059.02"/> Ivor B. <span class="iM">Mechanical Investigations of Leonardo Da Vinci</span>. Berkeley: University of California Press,<a id="GBS.1059.03"/> 1963.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Hoffman, Banesh. <span class="iM">Albert Einstein: Creator and Rebel</span>. New York: New American Library, 1972.</p><div style="display:none;"><a id="GBS.1059.04"/></div>

  <p class="att_p0">* Isaacman, R. and Sagan, Carl. “Computer Simulation of Planetary Accretion Dynamics: Sensitivity<a id="GBS.1059.05"/> to Initial Conditions.” <span class="iM">Icarus</span>, Vol. 31, 1977, 510쪽.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Lieber, Lillian R. and Lieber, Hugh Gray.<a id="GBS.1060.01"/> <span class="iM">The Einstein Theory of Relativity</span>. New York: Holt, Rinehart and Winston, 1961.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">MacCurdy, Edward<a id="GBS.1060.02"/> <span class="s">(ed.)</span>. <span class="iM">Notebooks of Leonardo</span>. Two volumes. New York: Reynal and Hitchcock, 1938.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">* Martin, A.R.<a id="GBS.1060.03"/> <span class="s">(ed.)</span>. “Project Daedalus: Final Report of the British Interplanetary Society Starship Study.” <span class="iM">Journal<a id="GBS.1060.04"/> of the British Interplanetary Society</span>, Supplement, 1978.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">McPhee, John A. <span class="iM">The Curve of Binding<a id="GBS.1060.05"/> Energy</span>. New York: Farrar, Straus and Giroux, 1974.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">* Marmin, David. <span class="iM">Space and Time and Special<a id="GBS.1061.01"/> Relativity</span>. New York: McGraw-Hill, 1968.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Richter, Jean-Paul. <span class="iM">Notebooks of Leonardo Da Vinci</span><a id="GBS.1061.02"/>. New York: Dover, 1970.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Schlipp, Paul A. <span class="s">(ed.)</span>. <span class="iM">Albert Einstein: Philosopher-Scientist</span>, third<a id="GBS.1061.03"/> edition. Two volumes. La Salle, Ill.: Open Court, 1970.</p>

  <p class="p0 chron">9  별들의 삶과 죽음</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Eddy, John A. <span class="iM">The New<a id="GBS.1061.04"/> Sun: The Solar Results from Skylab</span>. NASA SP-402. Washingtion, D.C.: U.S. Government Printing Office,<a id="GBS.1061.05"/> 1979.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">* Feynman, R.P., Leighton, R.B. and Sands, M. <span class="iM">The Feynman Lectures on Physics</span>. Reading,<a id="GBS.1062.01"/> Mass.: Addison-Wesley, 1963.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Gamow, George. <span class="iM">One, Two, Three...Infinity</span>. New York: Bantam Books,<a id="GBS.1062.02"/> 1971.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Kasner, Edward and Newman, James R. <span class="iM">Mathematics and the Imagination</span>. New York: Simon and<a id="GBS.1062.03"/> Schuster, 1953.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Kaufmann, William J. <span class="iM">Stars and Nebulas</span>. San Francisco: W.H. Freeman, 1978.</p><div style="display:none;"><a id="GBS.1062.04"/></div>

  <p class="att_p0">Maffei, Paolo. <span class="iM">Monsters in the Sky</span>. Cambridge: M.I.T. Press, 1980.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Murdin, P. and Allen,<a id="GBS.1062.05"/> D. <span class="iM">Catalogue of the Universe</span>, New York: Crown Publishers, 1979.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">* Shklovskii, I.S. Stars: <span class="iM">Their<a id="GBS.1063.01"/> Birth, Life and Death</span>. San Francisco: W.H. Freeman, 1978.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Sullivan, Walter. <span class="iM">Black Holes: The<a id="GBS.1063.02"/> Edge of Space, The End of Time</span>. New York: Doubleday, 1979.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Weisskopf, Victor. <span class="iM">Knowledge and<a id="GBS.1063.03"/> Wonder</span>, second edition. Cambridge: M.I.T. Press, 1979.</p>

  <p class="att_p0"><span class="iM">Excellent introductory college textbooks<a id="GBS.1063.04"/> on astronomy include:</span></p>

  <p class="att_p0">Abell, George. <span class="iM">The Realm of the Universe</span>. Philadelphia: Saunders College,<a id="GBS.1063.05"/> 1980.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Berman, Louis and Evans, J.C. <span class="iM">Exploring the Cosmos</span>. Boston: Little, Brown, 1980.</p>

  <p class="att_p0"><a id="GBS.1064.01"/>Hartmann, William K. <span class="iM">Astronomy: The Cosmic Journey</span>. Belmont, Cal.: Wadsworth, 1978.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Jastrow,<a id="GBS.1064.02"/> Robert and Thompson, Malcolm H. <span class="iM">Astronomy: Fundamentals and Frontiers</span>, third edtion. New York: Wiley,<a id="GBS.1064.03"/> 1977.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Pasachoff, Jay M. and Kutner, M.L. <span class="iM">University Astronomy</span>. Philadelphia: Saunders, 1978.</p><div style="display:none;"><a id="GBS.1064.04"/></div>

  <p class="att_p0">Zeilik, Michael. <span class="iM">Astronomy: The Evolving Universe</span>. New York: Harper and Row, 1979.</p>

  <p class="p0 chron">10  영원의<a id="GBS.1064.05"/> 벼랑 끝</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Abbortt, E. <span class="iM">Flatland</span>. New York: Barnes and Noble, 1963.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">* Arp, Halton, “Peculiar Galaxies<a id="GBS.1065.01"/> and Radio Sources.” <span class="iM">Science</span>, Vol. 151, 1966, 1214쪽.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Bok, Bart and Bok, Priscilla. <span class="iM">The Milky<a id="GBS.1065.02"/> Way</span>, fourth edition. Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 1974.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Cambell, Joseph. <span class="iM">The Mythic<a id="GBS.1065.03"/> Image</span>. Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1974.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Ferris, Timothy. <span class="iM">Galaxies</span>. San Francisco:<a id="GBS.1065.04"/> Sierra Club Books, 1980.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Ferris, Timothy. <span class="iM">The Red Limit: The Search by Astronomers for the Edge<a id="GBS.1065.05"/> of the Universe</span>. New York: William Morrow, 1977.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Gingerich, Owen <span class="s">(ed.)</span>. <span class="iM">Cosmology+1</span>. A Scientific<a id="GBS.1066.01"/> American Book. San Francisco: W.H. Freeman, 1977.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">* Jones, B. “The Origin of Galaxies: A Review<a id="GBS.1066.02"/> of Recent Theoretical Developments and Their Confrontation with Observation.” <span class="iM">Reviews of Modern<a id="GBS.1066.03"/> Physics</span>, Vol. 48, 1976, 107쪽.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Kaufmann, William J. <span class="iM">Black Holes and Warped Space-Time</span>. San Francisco:<a id="GBS.1066.04"/> W.H. Freeman, 1979.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Kaufmann, William J. <span class="iM">Galaxies and Quasars</span>. San Francisco: W.H. Freeman,<a id="GBS.1066.05"/> 1979.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Rothenberg, Jerome <span class="s">(ed.)</span>. <span class="iM">Technicians of the Sacred</span>. New York: Doubleday, 1968.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Silk,<a id="GBS.1067.01"/> Joseph. <span class="iM">The Big Bang: The Creation and Evolution of the Universe</span>. San Francisco: W.H. Freeman, 1980.</p><div style="display:none;"><a id="GBS.1067.02"/></div>

  <p class="att_p0">Sproul, Barbara C. <span class="iM">Primal Myths: Creating the World</span>. New York: Harper and Row, 1979.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">* Stockton,<a id="GBS.1067.03"/> A.N. “The Nature of QSO Red Shifts.” <span class="iM">Astrophysical Journal</span>, Vol. 223, 1978, 747쪽.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Weinberg,<a id="GBS.1067.04"/> Steven. <span class="iM">The First Three Minutes: A Modern View of the Origin of the Universe</span>. New York: Basic Books,<a id="GBS.1067.05"/> 1977.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">* White, S.D.M. and Rees, M.J. “Core Condensation in Heavy Halos: A Two-Stage Series for<a id="GBS.1068.01"/> Galaxy Formation and Clustering.” <span class="iM">Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society</span>, Vol. 183, 1978,<a id="GBS.1068.02"/> 341쪽.</p>

  <p class="p0 chron">11  미래로 띄운 편지</p>

  <p class="att_p0"><span class="iM">Human Ancestors</span>. Readings from Scientific American. San Francisco: W.H.<a id="GBS.1068.03"/> Freeman, 1979.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Koestler, Arthur. <span class="iM">The Act of Creation</span>. New York: Macmillan, 1964.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Leaky,<a id="GBS.1068.04"/> Richard E. and Lewin, Roger. <span class="iM">Origins</span>. New York: Dutton, 1977.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">* Lehninger, Albert L. <span class="iM">Biochemistry</span><a id="GBS.1068.05"/>. New York: Worth Publishers, 1975.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">* Norris, Kenneth S. <span class="s">(ed.)</span>. <span class="iM">Whales, Dolphins and Porpoises</span><a id="GBS.1069.01"/>. Berkeley: University of California Press, 1978.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">* Payne, Roger and McVay, Scott. “Songs of<a id="GBS.1069.02"/> Humpback Whales.” <span class="iM">Science</span>, Vol. 173, August 1971, 585쪽.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Restam, Richard M. <span class="iM">The Brain</span>. New York:<a id="GBS.1069.03"/> Doubleday, 1979.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Sagan, Carl. <span class="iM">The Dragons of Eden: Speculations on the Evolution of Human Intellingence</span><a id="GBS.1069.04"/>. New York: Random House, 1977.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Sagan, Car, Drake, F.D., Druyan, A., Ferris, T., Lomberg, J.,<a id="GBS.1069.05"/> and Sagan, L.S. <span class="iM">Murmurs of Earth: The Voyager Interstellar Record</span>. New York: Random House, 1978.</p><div style="display:none;"><a id="GBS.1070.01"/></div>

  <p class="att_p0">* Stryer, Lubert. <span class="iM">Biochemistry</span>. San Francisco: W.H. Freeman, 1975.</p>

  <p class="att_p0"><span class="iM">The Brain</span>. A Scientific<a id="GBS.1070.02"/> American Book. San Francisco: W.H. Freeman, 1979.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">* Winn, Howard E. and Olla, Bori L. <span class="s">(eds.)</span>. <span class="iM"><a id="GBS.1070.03"/>Behavior of Marine Animals</span>, Vol. 3: <span class="iM">Cetaceans</span>. New York: Plenum, 1979.</p>

  <p class="p0 chron">12  은하 대백과사전</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Asimov,<a id="GBS.1070.04"/> Isaac. <span class="iM">Extraterrestrial Civilizations</span>. New York: Fawcett, 1979.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Budge, E.A. Wallis. <span class="iM">Egyptian<a id="GBS.1070.05"/> Language: Easy Lessons in Egyptian Hieroglyphics</span>. New York: Dover Publication, 1976.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">de Laguna,<a id="GBS.1071.01"/> Frederica. <span class="iM">Under Mount St. Elias: History and Culture of Yacutat Tlingit</span>. Washington, D.C.: U.S.<a id="GBS.1071.02"/> Government Printing Office, 1972.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Emmons, G.T. <span class="iM">The Chilkat Blaket</span>. New York: Memoirs of the<a id="GBS.1071.03"/> American Museum of Natural Hisotry, 1907.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Goldsmith, D. and Owen, T. <span class="iM">The Search for Life in<a id="GBS.1071.04"/> the Universe</span>. Menlo Park: Benjamin/Cummings, 1980.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Klass, Philip. <span class="iM">UFO’s Explained</span>. New York:<a id="GBS.1071.05"/> Vintage, 1976.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Krause, Aurel. <span class="iM">The Tlingit Indians</span>. Seattle: University of Washington Press,<a id="GBS.1071.06"/> 1956.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">La Pérouse, Jean F. de G., comte de. <span class="iM">Voyage de la Pérouse Autour du Monde</span> <span class="s">(four volumes)</span><a id="GBS.1072.01"/>. Paris: Imprimerie de la Republique, 1797.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Mallove, E., Forward, R.L., Paprotny, Z., and Lehmann,<a id="GBS.1072.02"/> J. “Interstellar Travel and Communication: A Bibliography.” <span class="iM">Journal of the British Interplanetary<a id="GBS.1072.03"/> Society</span>, Vol. 33, No. 6, 1980.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">* Morrison, P., Billingham, J. and Wolfe, J. <span class="s">(eds.)</span>. <span class="iM">The Search<a id="GBS.1072.04"/> for Extraterrestrial Intelligence</span>. New York: Dover, 1979.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">* Sagan, Carl <span class="s">(ed.)</span>. <span class="iM">Communication<a id="GBS.1072.05"/> with Extraterrestrial Intelligence <span class="s">(CETI)</span></span>. Cambridge: M.I.T. Press, 1973.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Sagan, Carl and Page,<a id="GBS.1073.01"/> Thornton <span class="s">(eds.)</span>. <span class="iM">UFO’s: A Scientific Debate</span>. New York: W.W. Norton, 1974.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Shklovskii, I.S. and<a id="GBS.1073.02"/> Sagan, Carl. <span class="iM">Intelligent Life in the Universe</span>. New York: Dell, 1967.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Story, Ron. <span class="iM">The Space-Gods<a id="GBS.1073.03"/> Revealed: A Close Look at the Theories of Erich von Daniken</span>. New York; Harper and Row, 1976.</p>

  <p class="att_p0"><a id="GBS.1073.04"/>Vaillant, George C. <span class="iM">Aztecs of Mexico</span>. New York: Pelican Books, 1965.</p>

  <p class="p0 chron">13  누가 우리 지구를 대변해 줄까?</p>

  <p class="att_p0"><a id="GBS.1073.05"/>Drell, Sidney D. and Von Hippel, Frank. “Limited Nuclear War.” Scientific American, Vol. 235, 1976,<a id="GBS.1074.01"/> 2737쪽.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Dyson, F. <span class="iM">Disturbing the Universe</span>. New York: Harper and Row, 1979.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Glasstone, Samuel<a id="GBS.1074.02"/> <span class="s">(ed.)</span>. <span class="iM">The Effects of Nuclear Weapons</span>. Washington, D.C.: U.S. Atomic Energy Commission, 1964.</p>

  <p class="att_p0"><a id="GBS.1074.03"/>Humboldt, Alexander von. <span class="iM">Cosmos</span>. Five volumes London: Bell, 1871.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Murchee, G. <span class="iM">The Seven Mysteries<a id="GBS.1074.04"/> of Life</span>. Boston: Houghton Mifflin, 1978.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Nathan, Otto and Norden, Heinz <span class="s">(eds.)</span>. <span class="iM">Einstein on<a id="GBS.1074.05"/> Peace</span>. New York: Simon and Schuster, 1960.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Perrin, Noel. <span class="iM">Giving Up the Gun: Japan’s Reversion<a id="GBS.1075.01"/> to the Sword 1543-1879</span>. Boston: David Godine, 1979.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Prescott, James W. “Body Pleasure and the<a id="GBS.1075.02"/> Origins of Violence.” <span class="iM">Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists</span>, November 1975, 10쪽.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">* Richardson, Lewis<a id="GBS.1075.03"/> F. <span class="iM">The Statistics of Deadly Quarrels</span>. Pittsburgh: Boxwood Press, 1960.</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Sagan, Carl. <span class="iM">The Cosmic<a id="GBS.1075.04"/> Connection. An Extraterrestrial Perspective</span>. New York: Doubleday, 1973.</p>

  <p class="att_p0"><span class="iM">World Armaments and<a id="GBS.1075.05"/> Disarmament</span>. SIPRI Yearbook, 1980 and previous years, Stockholm International Peace Reasearch Institute.<a id="GBS.1076.01"/> New York: Crane Russak and Company, 1980 and previous years.</p>

  <p class="p0 chron">부록</p>

  <p class="att_p0">Courant, Richard and Robbins,<a id="GBS.1076.02"/> Herbert. <span class="iM">What Is Mathematics? An Elementary Approach to Ideas and Methods</span>. New York: Oxford University<a id="GBS.1076.03"/> Press, 1969.</p>
<div style="display:none;"><a id="GBS.1076.04"/></div></body>
</html>